---
layout: post
mathjax: true
categories: media
title: "Abstract Algebra"
---
Reference: *Abstract Algebra, An Introduction*, 3rd Edtion, by Thomas Hungerford. Please note that this post is only for personal learning purposes and has no commercial use. The copyright belongs to the author of the textbook.

## <center>Chapter 1. Arithmetic in Z Revisited</center>
### 1.1 The Division Algorithm
**Well Ordering Axiom.** Every nonempty subset of the set of nonnegative integers contains a smallest element.    
**Theorem 1.1 (The Division Algorithm).** Let $$a,b$$ be integers with $$b>0$$. Then there exists unique integers $$q$$ and $$r$$ such that

$$a=bq+r,\quad 0\leq r<b.$$

**Corollary 1.2.** Let $$a,c$$ be integers with $$c\neq0$$. Then there exists unique integers $$q$$ and $$r$$ such that

$$a=cq+r,\quad 0\leq r<|c|.$$

### 1.2 Divisibility
**Definition.** Let $$a$$ and $$b$$ be integers with $$b\neq0$$. We say $$b$$ *divides* $$a$$ (or that $$b$$ is a divisor of $$a$$, or that $$b$$ is a factor of $$a$$) if $$a=bc$$ for some integer $$c$$. In symbols, $$b$$ divides $$a$$ is written $$b|a$$ and $$b$$ does not divide $$a$$ is written $$b\nmid a$$.      
**Remark.** $$a$$ and $$-a$$ have the same divisors.    
**Remark.** Suppose $$a\neq 0$$ and $$b|a$$. Then $$a=bc\Rightarrow |a|=|b||c|$$. Thus $$0\leq |b|\leq a\Rightarrow -|a|\leq b\leq |a|.$$ Then    
&emsp;&emsp;(1) every divisor of the nonzero integer $$a$$ is less than or equal to $$|a|$$;    
&emsp;&emsp;(2) a nonzero integer has only finitely many divisors.     
**Definition.** Let $$a$$ and $$b$$ be integers, not both $$0$$. The *greatest common divisor (gcd)* of $$a$$ and $$b$$ is the largest integer $$d$$ that divides both $$a$$ and $$b$$. In other words, $$d=gcd(a,b)$$ iff    
&emsp;&emsp;(i) $$d|a$$ and $$d|b$$,     
&emsp;&emsp;(ii) if $$c|a$$ and $$c|b$$, then $$c\leq d$$.   
**Theorem 1.3.** Let $$a$$ and $$b$$ be integers not both $$0$$, and let $$d$$ be their greatest common divisor. Then there exists integers $$u$$ and $$v$$ such that 

$$d=au+bv.$$   

**Corollary 1.4.** Let $$a$$ and $$b$$ be integers, not both $$0$$, and let $$d$$ be a positive integer. Then $$d$$ is the greatest common divisor of $$a$$ and $$b$$ iff $$d$$ satisfies    
&emsp;&emsp;(i) $$d|a$$ and $$d|b$$;     
&emsp;&emsp;(ii) if $$c|a$$ and $$c|b$$, then $$c|d$$.    
**Theorem 1.5.** If $$a|bc$$ and $$gcd(a,b)=1$$, then $$a|c$$.   
**Theorem 1.6 (The Euclidean Algorithm).** Let $$a$$ and $$b$$ be positive integers with $$a\geq b$$. If $$b|a$$, then $$gcd(a,b)=b$$. If $$b\nmid a$$, then apply the division algorithm repeatedly as follows:

$$\begin{alignat*}{2}
a&=bq_0+r_0,\quad     &0<r_0<b,\\
b&=r_0q_1+r_1,\quad   &0\leq r_1<r_0,\\
r_0&=r_1q_2+r_2,\quad &0\leq r_2<r_1,\\
r_1&=r_2q_3+r_3,\quad &0\leq r_3<r_2,\\
r_2&=r_3q_4+r_4,\quad &0\leq r_4<r_3,\\
&\cdots &
\end{alignat*}
$$

The process ends when a remainder of 0 is obtained. For some integer $$t$$:

$$\begin{align*}
r_{t-2}&=r_{t-1}q_t+r_t,\quad 0<r_t<r_{t-1},\\
r_{t-1}&=r_{t}q_{t+1}+0
\end{align*}$$

Then the last nonzero remainder $$r_t$$ is the greatest common divisor of $$a$$ and $$b$$.   
**Lemma 1.7.** If $$a,b,q,r\in\mathbb{Z}$$ and $$a=bq+r$$, then $$gcd(a,b)=gcd(b,r).$$
### 1.3 Primes and Unique Factorization
**Definition.** An integer $$p$$ is said to be *prime* if $$p\neq 0,\pm 1$$ and the only diverors of $$p$$ are $$\pm 1$$ and $$\pm p$$.    
**Remark.** (1) $$p$$ is prime iff $$-p$$ is prime. (2) If $$p,q$$ are prime and $$p|q$$, then $$p=\pm q$$.   
**Theorem 1.8.** Let $$p$$ be an integer with $$p\neq0,\pm1$$. Then $$p$$ is prime iff $$p$$ has the property: whenever $$p|bc$$, then $$p|b$$ and $$p|c$$.    
**Theorem 1.9.** If $$p$$ is prime and $$p|a_1a_2\cdots a_n$$, then $$p$$ divides at least one of $$a_i$$.    
**Theorem 1.10.** Every integer $$n$$ except $$0,\pm1$$ is the products of primes.    
**Theorem 1.11 (The Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic).** Every integer $$n$$ except $$0,\pm1$$ is a product of primes. This prime factorization is unique in the following sense: If 

$$n=p_1p_2\cdots p_r,\quad\text{and}\quad n=q_1q_2\cdots q_s,$$

with each $$p_i,q_j$$ prime, then $$r=s$$ (the number of factors is the same) and after reordering and relabeling the $$q$$'s, we have

$$p_1=\pm q_1,\quad p_2=\pm q_2,\quad p_3=\pm q_3,\quad\cdots,\quad p_r=\pm q_r.$$

**Corollary 1.12.** Every integer $$n>1$$ can be written in one and only one way in the form $$n=p_1p_2p_3\cdots p_r$$, where the $$p_i$$ are positive primes such that $$p_1\leq p_2\leq\cdots\leq p_r$$.

### 1.4 Primality Testing
**Theorem 1.13.** Let $$n>1$$. If $$n$$ has no prime factor less than or equal to $$\sqrt{n}$$, then $$n$$ is prime.    

**Theorem 1.14 (The Prime-Number Theorem).** If $$n$$ is a large positive integer, then the number $$\pi(n)$$ of positive prime less than or equal to $$n$$ is approximately equal to $$n/\ln n$$. More precisely,

$$\lim_{n\to\infty}\left(\frac{\pi(n)}{n/\ln n}\right)=1.$$

## <center>Chapter 2. Congruence in Z and Modular Arithmetic</center>
### 2.1 Congruence and Congruence Classes
**Definition.** Let $$a,b,n$$ be integers with $$n>0$$. Then $$a$$ is *congruent* to $$b$$ modulo $$n$$, provided that $$n$$ divides $$a-b$$. This is written as

$$a\equiv b\Mod{n}.$$
