---
layout: post
mathjax: true
categories: media
title: "Statistical Mechanics"
---

Reference: *An Introduction to Thermal Physics*, by Daniel V. Schroeder. Please note that this post is only for personal learning purposes and has no commercial use. The copyright belongs to the author of the textbook.

## <center>Energy in Thermal Physics</center>
#### Thermal Equilibrium
* Two objects have been in contact long enough $$\Rightarrow$$ thermal equilibrium.
* The time for a system to come to thermal equilibrium: relaxation time.
* Temperature is a measure of an object to spontaneously give up energy to its surroundings. When two objects are in thermal contact, the one that tends to spontaneously lose energy is at higher temperature.

#### The Ideal Gas Law
For a low-density gas, we have

$$pV=nRT,\quad pV=NkT.$$

#### Mircoscopic Model of an Ideal Gas
Suppose there are $$N$$ molecules, not interacting with each other:

$$\left\langle\frac{1}{2}mv_x^2\right\rangle=\left\langle\frac{1}{2}mv_y^2\right\rangle=\left\langle\frac{1}{2}mv_x^2\right\rangle=\frac{1}{2}kT,\quad \langle K_\text{trans}\rangle=\frac{3}{2}kT.$$

$$\langle v^2\rangle=\frac{3kT}{m},\quad v_\text{rms}\equiv\sqrt{\langle v^2\rangle}=\sqrt{\frac{3kT}{m}}.$$

#### Equipartition of Energy
At temperature $$T$$, the average energy of any quadratic degree of freedom is $$\displaystyle\frac{1}{2}kT$$. For a system containing $$N$$ molecules,each with $$f$$ quadratic degrees of freedom, the total thermal energy is

$$U=\frac{1}{2}NfkT.$$

#### Heat and Work
* Heat: Any spontaneous flow of energy from one object to another, caused by a difference in temperature.
* Work: Any other transfer of energy.

The first law of thermodynamics

$$\Delta U=Q+W.$$

#### Compression Work
For quasistatic process (slow enough so that the gas is in equilibrium), we have

$$W=-P\Delta V.$$

If the pressure is not constant,

$$W=-\int_{V_i}^{V_f}P(V)dV.$$
