---
layout: post
mathjax: true
categories: media
title: "Statistical Mechanics"
---

Reference: *An Introduction to Thermal Physics*, by Daniel V. Schroeder. Please note that this post is only for personal learning purposes and has no commercial use. The copyright belongs to the author of the textbook.

## <center>Energy in Thermal Physics</center>

#### The Ideal Gas Law
For a low-density gas, we have

$$pV=nRT,\quad pV=NkT.$$

#### Mircoscopic Model of an Ideal Gas
Suppose there are $$N$$ molecules, not interacting with each other:

$$\left\langle\frac{1}{2}mv_x^2\right\rangle=\left\langle\frac{1}{2}mv_y^2\right\rangle=\left\langle\frac{1}{2}mv_x^2\right\rangle=\frac{1}{2}kT,\quad \langle K_\text{trans}\rangle=\frac{3}{2}kT.$$

$$\langle v^2\rangle=\frac{3kT}{m},\quad v_\text{rms}\equiv\sqrt{\langle v^2\rangle}=\sqrt{\frac{3kT}{m}}.$$

#### Equipartition of Energy
At temperature $$T$$, the average energy of any quadratic degree of freedom is $$\displaystyle\frac{1}{2}kT$$. For a system containing $$N$$ molecules,each with $$f$$ quadratic degrees of freedom, the total thermal energy is

$$U=\frac{1}{2}NfkT.$$

#### Heat and Work
* Heat: Any spontaneous flow of energy from one object to another, caused by a difference in temperature.
* Work: Any other transfer of energy.

The first law of thermodynamics

$$\Delta U=Q+W.$$

#### Compression Work
For quasistatic process (slow enough so that the gas is in equilibrium), 

$$W=-P\Delta V.$$

If the pressure is not constant,

$$W=-\int_{V_i}^{V_f}P(V)dV.$$

#### Compression of an Ideal Gas
*Isothermal compression*: slow, temperature doesn't rise.

$$W=NkT\ln\frac{V_i}{V_f},\quad W=NkT\ln\frac{V_f}{V_i}.$$

*Adiabatic compression*: fast, no heat escape from the system.

$$VT^{f/2}=\text{constant},\quad PV^\gamma =\text{constant},\quad \gamma=\frac{f+2}{f}.$$

#### Heat Capacity
The heat capacity is defined as

$$C\equiv\frac{Q}{\Delta T}.$$

The specific head capacity

$$c=\frac{C}{m}.$$

The heat capacities at constant volume and constant pressure

$$\begin{align*}
C_V&=\left(\frac{\Delta U}{\Delta T}\right)_V=\left(\frac{\partial U}{\partial T}\right)_V,\\
C_P&=\left(\frac{\Delta U-(-P\Delta V)}{\Delta T}\right)_P=\left(\frac{\partial U}{\partial T}\right)_P+P\left(\frac{\partial V}{\partial T}\right)_P.
\end{align*}$$


#### Enthalpy
The enthalpy

$$H=U+PV.$$

During a constant-pressure process

$$\Delta H=\Delta U+P\Delta V=Q+W_\text{other}.$$

And $$\displaystyle C_P=\left(\frac{\partial H}{\partial T}\right)_P.$$

If the system stores thermal energy only in quadratic degrees of freedom, 

$$C_V=\frac{1}{2}Nfk,\quad C_P=C_V+Nk.$$

## <center>The Second Law</center>
