---
layout: post
mathjax: true
categories: media
title: "Mathematical Analysis"
---

(**Remark.** ▲ means that this is an important theorem, ★ means that the theorem has a high probability to be tested.)

## <center>Countability</center>
▲**Bijection Theorem.** Let $$g:S\to T$$ be a bijection. $$S$$ is countable iff $$T$$ is countable.

▲**Countable Subset Theorem.** Let $$A\subseteq B$$. If $$B$$ is countable, then $$A$$ is countable. If $$A$$ is uncountable, then $$B$$ is uncountbale.

▲**Countable Union Theorem.** Countable union of countable sets is countable.

**Product Theorem.** If $$A,B$$ are countable, then $$A\times B$$ is countable. In general, if $$A_1,A_2,\cdots, A_n$$ are countable, then $$A_1\times A_2\times\cdots\times A_n$$ is countable.

▲**Theorem.** (1) (Injection Theorem) Let $$f:A\to B$$ be injective. If $$B$$ is countable, then $$A$$ is countable.    
(2) (Surjection Theorem) Let $$g:A\to B$$ be surjective. If $$A$$ is countable, then $$B$$ is countable.

## <center>Series</center>
**Theorem (Geometric Series Test).** The series $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=0}^\infty r^k$$ converges to $$\displaystyle\frac{1}{1-r}$$ if $$|r|<1$$ or doesn't exist otherwise.

**Theorem (Telescoping Series Test).** $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty(b_k-b_{k+1})=b_1-\lim_{n\to\infty} b_{n+1}$$ converges iff $$\displaystyle\lim_{n\to\infty} b_{n}$$ is a number.

▲**Theorem (Term Test).** If $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty a_k$$ converges, then $$\displaystyle\lim_{k\to\infty}a_k=0$$.

▲**Theorem (Integral Test).** Let $$f:[1,+\infty)\to\mathbb{R}$$ decrease to $$0$$ as $$x\to\infty$$. Then $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty f(k)$$ converges iff $$\displaystyle\int_1^\infty f(x)dx<\infty$$.

▲**Theorem (Comparison Test).** Given $$v_k\geq u_k\geq 0$$ for every $$k$$. If $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty v_k$$ converges, then $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty u_k$$ converges.

▲**Theorem (Limit Comparison Test).** Given $$v_k\geq u_k\geq 0$$ for every $$k$$.If $$\displaystyle\lim_{k\to\infty}\frac{v_k}{u_k}$$ is a positive number $$L$$, then both series converges or diverges. If $$\displaystyle\lim_{k\to\infty}\frac{v_k}{u_k}=0$$, then $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty u_k$$ converges $$\Rightarrow\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty v_k$$ converges. If $$\displaystyle\lim_{k\to\infty}\frac{v_k}{u_k}=\infty,$$ then $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty v_k$$ converges $$\Rightarrow\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty u_k$$ converges.

▲**Theorem (Alternating Series Test).** If $$c_k$$ decreases to 0 as $$k\to\infty$$, then $$\displaystyle\sum_{k=1}^\infty (-1)^{k+1}c_k=c_1-c_2+c_3-c_4+\cdots$$ converges.

**Theorem (Absolute Convergence Test).**


## <center>Real Numbers</center>
**Completeness Axiom.** Every nonempty subset of $$\mathbb{R}$$ which is bounded above/below has a supremum/infimum in $$\mathbb{R}$$.

**Theorem (Infinitesimal Principle).** For $$x,y\in\mathbb{R}$$, $$x<y+\varepsilon$$ for all $$\varepsilon>0$$ iff $$x\leq y$$. Similarly, $$y-\varepsilon<x$$ for all $$\varepsilon>0$$ iff $$y\leq x$$.

▲**Theorem (Mathematical Induction).** For every $$n\in\mathbb{N}$$, $$A(n)$$ is a true or false statement such that $$A(1)$$ is true and for every $$k\in\mathbb{N}$$, $$A(k)$$ is true implies $$A(k+1)$$ is also true. Then $$A(n)$$ is true for all $$n\in\mathbb{N}$$.

**Theorem (Supremum Property).** If a set $$S$$ has a supremum in $$\mathbb{R}$$ and $$\varepsilon>0$$, then there is $$x\in S$$ such that $$\text{sup }S-\varepsilon<x\leq \text{sup }S$$.

**Theorem (Infimum Property).** If a set $$S$$ has an infimum in $$\mathbb{R}$$ and $$\varepsilon>0$$, then there is $$x\in S$$ such that $$\text{inf } S—\varepsilon>x\geq\text{inf }S$$.

▲**Theorem (Archimedean Principle).** For any $$x\in\mathbb{R}$$, there is $$n\in\mathbb{N}$$ such that $$n>x$$.

**Theorem (Density of Rational Numbers).** If $$x<y$$, then there exists $$\frac{m}{n}\in\mathbb{Q}$$ such that $$x<\frac{m}{n}<y$$.

**Theorem (Density of Irrational Numbers).** If $$x<y$$, then there exists $$w\in\mathbb{R}/\mathbb{Q}$$ such that $$x<w<y$$.


## <center>Limits</center>

### Cauchy Sequence
▲**Definition.** $$\{x_n\}$$ is a Cauchy sequence iff for every $$\varepsilon>0$$, there is $$K\in\mathbb{N}$$ such that $$m,n\geq K$$ implies $$|x_m-x_n|<\varepsilon.$$

▲**Cauchy's Theorem.** If $$\{x_n\}$$ converges iff $$\{x_n\}$$ is a Cauchy sequence.

**Bolzano-Weierstrass Theorem.** If $$\{x_n\}$$ is bounded, then $$\{x_n\}$$ has a subsequence $$\{x_{n_j}\}$$ that converges.

> Tips on **Cauchy Sequence**:
> * Remember to consider the **Mean Value Theorem**. e.g. $$\{a_n\}$$ is Cauchy sequence, $$b_n=\{\ln(1+a_n)\}$$ is also Cauchy sequence by considering $$f(x)=\ln(1+x)$$. The form will contains $$f'(c)$$. Have to deal with $$f'(c)$$.
> * Triangular Inequalities:
>   *
$$|x+y|\leq |x|+|y|;$$
>   *
$$|x-y|\leq |x|+|y|;$$
>   *
$$|x|-|y|\leq|x-y|;$$
>   *
$$||x|-|y||\leq |x-y|.$$

### Limits of Functions
▲**Definition.** A sequence $$\{x_n\}$$ converges to a number $$x$$ iff for every $$\varepsilon>0$$, there is $$K\in\mathbb{N}$$ such that for every $$n\geq K$$, $$|x_n-x|<\varepsilon$$.

**Sequential Limit Theorem.** $$\displaystyle\lim_{x\to x_0,x\in S}f(x)=L$$ iff for every $$x_n\to x_0$$ in $$S/\{x_0\}$$, $$\displaystyle\lim_{n\to\infty}f(x_n)=L$$.

**Consequences of Sequential Limit Theorem.** (1) Computation Formulas; 
(2) Sandwich Theorem; (3) Limit Inequality.

**Theorem.** For $$x_0\in(a,b)$$, $$\displaystyle\lim_{x\to x_0,x\in S}f(x)=L$$ iff $$f(x_0-)=L=f(x_0+)$$.

▲**Monontone Function Theorem.** If $$f$$ is increasing on $$(a,b)$$, then for every $$x_0\in(a,b)$$, $$f(x_0-)=\sup\{f(x):a<x<x_0\}$$ and $$f(x_0+)=\inf\{f(x):x_0<x<b\}$$ and $$f(x_0-)\leq f(x_0)\leq f(x_0+)$$. If $$f$$ is bounded below, then $$f(a+)=\inf\{f(x):a<x<b\}$$. If $$f$$ is bounded above, then $$f(b-)=\sup\{f(x):a<x<b\}.$$ Also, $$f$$ has countably many discontinuous points on $$(a,b)$$.

## <center>Countinuity</center>
**Definition.** A function $$f:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ is continuous at $$x_0\in S$$ iff $$\displaystyle\lim_{x\to x_0}f(x)=f(x_0).$$ 

▲**Sequential Continuity Theorem.** $$f:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ is continuous at $$x_0\in S$$ iff for every $$x_n\to x_0$$ in $$S$$, $$\displaystyle\lim_{n\to\infty}f(x_n)=f(x_0)=f(\lim_{n\to\infty}x_n).$$

> Tips on **Sequential Continuity Theorem**:
> * If a function contains $$x\in\mathbb{Q}$$ and $$x\in\mathbb{R}/\mathbb{Q}$$, and want to judge the continuity at $$x_0$$, construct rational sequence $$\{r_n\}$$ and irrational sequence $$\{q_n\}$$ converges to $$x_0$$.

**Theorem.** If $$f,g:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ are continuous at $$x_0\in S$$, then $$f\pm g,fg,f/g$$ are countinuous at $$x_0$$.

▲**Theorem.** If $$f:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ is continuous at $$x_0$$, $$f(S)\subseteq S'$$, $$g:S'\to\mathbb{R}$$ is countinous at $$f(x_0)$$, then $$g\circ f$$ is countinous at $$x_0$$.

**Theorem (Sign Preserving Property).** If $$g:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ is continuous at $$x_0$$ and $$g(x_0)>0$$, then there is an interval $$I=(x_0-\delta,x_0+\delta)$$ with $$\delta>0$$ such that $$g(x)>0$$ for every $$x\in S\cap I$$.

★**Intermediate Value Theorem.** If $$f:[a,b]\to\mathbb{R}$$ is continuous and $$y_0$$ is between $$f(a)$$ and $$f(b)$$ inclusive, then there exits $$x_0\in[a,b]$$ such that $$f(x_0)=y_0.$$

▲**Extreme Value Theorem.** If $$f:[a,b]\to\mathbb{R}$$ is continuous, then there are $$x_0,w_0\in[a,b]$$ such that $$f(w_0)\leq f(x)\leq f(x_0)$$ for every $$x\in[a,b]$$. So the range of $$f$$ is $$f([a,b])=[f(w_0),f(x_0)]$$. In particular, $$f$$ is bounded on $$[a,b]$$.

▲**Continuous Injection Theorem.** If $$f$$ is countinuous and injective on $$[a,b]$$, then $$f$$ is strictly *monotone* on $$[a,b]$$ and $$f([a,b])=[f(a),f(b)]$$ or $$[f(b),f(a)]$$.

**Continuous Inverse Theorem.** If $$f$$ is continuous and injective on $$[a,b]$$, then $$f^{-1}$$ is continous on $$f([a,b])$$.

## <center>Differentiation</center>
**Definitions.** Let $$S$$ be an interval of positive length. A function $$f:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ is differentiable at $$x_0\in S$$ iff $$\displaystyle{f'(x_0)=\lim_{x\to x_0}\frac{f(x)-f(x_0)}{x-x_0}}$$ exists in $$\mathbb{R}$$. Also, $$f$$ is 

▲**Theorem.** If $$f:S\to\mathbb{R}$$ is differentiable at $$x_0$$, then $$f$$ is countinous at $$x_0$$.

★**Rolle's Theorem.** Let $$f$$ be continuous on $$[a,b]$$ and differentiable on $$(a,b)$$. If $$f(a)=f(b)$$, then there exists $$z_0\in(a,b)$$ such that $$f'(z_0)=0.$$

★**Mean-Value Theorem.** Let $$f$$ be continuous on $$[a,b]$$ and differentiable on $$(a,b)$$. Then there exists $$x_0\in(a,b)$$ such that $$f(b)-f(a)=f'(x_0)(b-a).$$

★**Generalized Mean-Value Theorem.** Let $$f,g$$ be continuous on $$[a,b]$$ and differentiable on $$(a,b)$$. Then there exists $$x_0\in(a,b)$$ such that

$$g'(x_0)(f(b)-f(a))=f'(x_0)(g(b)-g(a)).$$

★**Taylor's Theorem.** Let $$f:(a,b)\to\mathbb{R}$$ be $$n$$ times differentiable on $$(a,b)$$. For every $$x,c\in(a,b)$$, there exists $$x_0$$ between $$x$$ and $$c$$ such that

$$f(x)=f(c)+\frac{f'(c)}{1!}(x-c)+\frac{f''(c)}{2!}(x-c)^2+\cdots+\frac{f^{(n-1)}(c)}{(n-1)!}(x-c)^{n-1}+\frac{f^{(n)}(x_0)}{n!}(x-c)^n.$$

## <center>Riemann Integral</center>
**Definition.** $$P'$$ is a refinement of $$[a,b]$$ iff $$P\subseteq P'.$$

★**Refinement Theorem.** If $$P'$$ is a refinement of $$[a,b]$$, then $$L(f,P)\leq L(f,P')\leq U(f,P')\leq U(f,P)$$.

★**Theorem (Integral Criterion).** Let $$f:[a,b]\to\mathbb{R}$$ be a bounded function. The function $$f$$ is Riemann integrable on $$[a,b]$$ iff for every $$\varepsilon>0$$, there is a partition $$P$$ of $$[a,b]$$ such that 

$$U(f,P)-L(f,P)<\varepsilon.$$

**Theorem.** If $$f$$ is continuous on $$[a,b]$$, then $$f$$ is integrable on $$[a,b]$$.

**Definition.** A set $$S\subseteq\mathbb{R}$$ is of measure 0 iff for every $$\varepsilon>0$$, there exists intervals $$(a_1,b_1),(a_2,b_2),\cdots$$ such that

$$S\subseteq\bigcup_{n=1}^\infty(a_n,b_n)\quad\text{and}\quad\sum_{n=1}^\infty|a_n-b_n|<\varepsilon.$$

★**Lebesgue's Theorem.** For a bounded function $$f:[a,b]\to\mathbb{R}$$, $$f$$ is integrable on $$[a,b]$$ iff the set $$\displaystyle S_f=\{x\in[a,b]:f\text{ is discontinuous at }x\}$$ is of measure 0 ($$f$$ is continuous almost everywhere).

**Remark.**(1) An empty set is of measure 0; (2) A countable set is of measure 0; (3) There exists uncountable sets, which are of measure 0; (4) A countable union of sets of measure 0 is of measure 0; (5) If $$S$$ is of measure 0, and $$S'\subseteq S$$, then $$S'$$ is of measure 0; (6) An example: the Dirichlet function is not countinuous everywhere and not integrable on every interval.

> Tips of **Integral Criterion**, **Lebsgue's Theorem** and **Refinement Theorem**:
> * Dealing with "of measure 0": consider an open interval. 
>   e.g. Given $$S\subseteq[0,1]$$, consider $$S/\{0,1\}$$.
> * For piecewise function, analyze the function in different intervals, then consider the piecewise point.
>   e.g. $$h(x)=f(x)$$ when $$x\in[0,1]$$ and $$h(x)=g(x)$$ when $$x\in(1,2]$$. Then deal with intervals $$[0,1)$$ and $$(1,2]$$ first and then consider $$\{1\}$$.
> * When dealing with 2 or more Riemann integrable functions with Integral Criterion, remember the refinement theorem.
>   e.g. Given two partitions $$P_1,P_2$$, may consider $$P=P_1\cap P_2$$.
> * When using Lebsgue's theorem, remember to deal with sets (countable union theorem, subset).

▲**Fundamental Theorem of Calculus.** Let $$c,x_0\in[a,b]$$.   
(1) If $$f$$ is integrable on $$[a,b]$$ and continuous at $$x_0\in[a,b]$$, and $$\displaystyle F(x)=\int_c^xf(t)dt$$, then $$\displaystyle F'(x_0)=f(x_0)$$.   
(2) If $$G$$ is differentiable on $$[a,b]$$ with $$G'=g$$ integrable on $$[a,b]$$, then $$\displaystyle\int_a^bg(x)dx=G(b)-G(a).$$

### Improper Riemann Integral
**Definition.** Let $$I$$ be an interval. Say $$f:I\to\mathbb{R}$$ is locally integrable iff $$f$$ is integrable on every closed and bounded subintervals of $$I$$. Denote this by $$f\in L_\text{loc}(I)$$.

Three cases of improper integrals: (1) Unbounded near one endpoint; (2) Unbounded near both endpoints; (3) Unbounded inside interval.

▲**Theorem (p-test).** For $$0<a<\infty$$, $$\displaystyle\int_a^\infty \frac{1}{x^p}dx<\infty$$ iff $$p>1$$. And $$\displaystyle\int_0^a\frac{1}{x^p}dx<\infty$$ iff $$p<1$$.

▲**Theorem (Comparison Test).** Suppose $$0\leq f(x)\leq g(x)$$ on $$I$$, and $$f$$, $$g\in L_\text{loc}(I)$$. If $$g$$ is improper integrable on $$I$$, then $$f$$ is improper integrable on $$I$$. If $$f$$ is not improper integrable on $$I$$, then $$g$$ is not improper integrable on $$I$$. 

▲**Theorem (Limit Comparison Test).** Suppose $$f(x),g(x)>0$$ on $$(a,b]$$ and $$f,g\in L_\text{loc}((a,b])$$. If $$\displaystyle\lim_{x\to a^+}\frac{g(x)}{f(x)}$$ is a positive number $$L$$, then either both the improper integrals converge or both diverge. If $$\displaystyle\lim_{x\to a^+}\frac{g(x)}{f(x)}=0$$, then $$\displaystyle\int_a^b f(x)dx$$ converges implies $$\displaystyle\int_a^bg(x)dx$$ converges. If $$\displaystyle\lim_{x\to a^+}\frac{g(x)}{f(x)}=\infty$$, then $$\displaystyle\int_a^b f(x)dx$$ diverges implies $$\displaystyle\int_a^bg(x)dx$$ diverges. This is similar to $$[a,b)$$.

▲**Theorem (Absolute Convergence Test).** If $$f\in L_\text{loc}(I)$$ and 

$$|f|$$

is improper integrable on $$I$$, then $$f$$ is improper integrable on $$I$$.
  
### Principal Value
**Definition.** Let $$f\in L_\text{loc}(\mathbb{R}),$$ then the principal value of $$\displaystyle\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}f(x)dx$$ is $$\displaystyle\text{P.V.}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}f(x)dx=\lim_{c\to+\infty}\int_{-c}^{c}f(x)dx$$.

▲**Theorem.** If the improper integral $$\displaystyle\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}f(x)dx$$ exists, then $$\displaystyle\text{P.V.}\int_{-\infty}^{\infty}f(x)dx$$ exists and equal to the improper integral. (Converse is false.)

**Definition.** For $$a,b\in\mathbb{R}$$ or $$\infty$$, let $$f:[a,c)\cup(c,b]\to\mathbb{R}$$ be locally integrable on $$[a,c)$$ and $$(c,b]$$. Define

$$\text{P.V.}\int_a^bf(x)dx=\lim_{\varepsilon\to0^+}\left(\int_a^{c-\varepsilon}f(x)dx+\int_{c+\varepsilon}^b f(x)dx\right).$$

### Taylor Series of Common Functions
**Theorem (Taylor's Formula with Integral Remainder).** 

$$R_n(x)=\frac{1}{(n-1)!}\int_c^x (x-t)^{n-1}f^{(n)}(t)dt.$$

**Theorem (Taylor's Formula with Cauchy Form Remainder).**

$$R_n(x)=\frac{(x-c)(x-x_1)^{n-1}f^{(n)}(x_1)}{(n-1)!}.$$

★**Mean Value Theorem for Integrals.** If $$f$$ is continuous on $$[a,b],$$ then $$\displaystyle\int_a^bf(x)dx=f(x_1)(b-a)$$ for some $$x_1\in[a,b]$$. More generally, if $$g$$ is integrable and $$g\geq0$$ on $$[a,b]$$, then $$\displaystyle\int_a^bf(x)g(x)dx=f(x_1)\int_a^b g(x)dx$$ for some $$x_1\in[a,b]$$. 

